Welcome back.
Today you're going to learn
a little bit about security.
Which will show the importance of
the problems you're going to solve in
this module.
Suppose you want to buy something online.
You use your computer which
is connected to the internet.
So it can communicate with
the servers at the online store
from which you're making your purchases.
To complete your purchase,
you put your credit card or other
payment information into your computer.
When you purchase the items
in your shopping cart, for
example, your computer
sends that information
with your credit card information across
the Internet to the online store.
But what if a thief is looking at
the data going across the Internet?
This thief might be able to intercept
your credit card information and
use it to make fraudulent purchases.
You certainly don't want that, and
neither does the online store.
It wants your business.
So, what makes online shopping safe?
What actually happens is that your
computer encrypts the information before
it sends it to the web servers for
the online store.
The two computers agree on a special
piece of data called the key.
And then use that with an encryption
algorithm to transform the data so
that only another computer with
the key can decrypt the data.
Now your computer sends the encrypted
data across the Internet and
any potential thief is thwarted.
The thief can only see
the encrypted data and
cannot understand what the message says.
Their receiving computer,
which has the key, can then decrypt the
data and understand the original message.
When you are doing anything online,
your web browser will tell you
if you have a secure connection.
For example,
Chrome displays the https in green and
shows a green lock icon next to it.
The s in https is for secure.
It's a different kind of connection to
a web server than the standard HTTP.
If you were to click on the lock icon,
it would tell you the technical details of
the encryption used to
secure the connection.
There are many algorithms involved in
securing your internet connection.
And algorithm called AES is typically
used to encrypt the data that is sent to
the server once the connection is set up.
However, your computer and
the server must agree on the key
in a secure fashion before
any information can be sent.
While this may sound quite difficult,
there are algorithms that
can make this happen.
In this example my computer used
two algorithms to securely set up
the connection with the server.
One called elliptic curve diffie
hellman and one called RSA.
These algorithms are very important to
the secure operation of the internet but
the math involved is a bit
advanced to go into here.
To implement these encryption algorithms,
you would need to spend several days or
months just learning that math which
is not the focus of this course.
If you're interested in
advanced cryptography,
Coursera has some excellent
courses on the subject
which you could take after you've
mastered basic programming.
Even though modern cryptography
requires some advanced math,
you can however learn a lot about
cryptography by looking to the past.
Classical cryptography, the cryptographic
algorithms used in past centuries,
involved simple mathematics and
even predate computers.
These algorithms are not secured today.
They can be easily cracked by computers.
But learning how they work and
implementing them will teach
you some important lessons.
Furthermore, learning how to break
them will teach you a critical lesson.
Do not try to make up your
own cryptographic scheme.
If you need security,
use a well-tested implementation
of a modern cryptographic library.
So how far into history will we need
to look to find the first use of
cryptography?
The first known use of something
resembling cryptography
comes from ancient Egypt 4,000 years ago.
However, historians believe
that the hiding of messages was
not a serious attempt to guard secrets.
If you look forward a few hundred
years to Mesopotamia around 1500 BCE,
you will find records of craftsmen
using simple encryption schemes to
guard their secrets when they
recorded them on stone tablets.
Going further forward to the Roman Empire,
the Caesar Cipher,
which you will learn about in the rest of
this module is named after Julius Caesar,
who used it extensively.
Looking forward another 1500 years
you will find the Vigenere Cipher.
Giovan Bastiste Belosa actually
described this algorithm in 1553,
but it named after Blaise Vigenere
in the 19th century.
His algorithm is
historically very important,
as it was long regarded as unbreakable.
However, In the mini project, you
are going to write a program to break it.
Continuing forward to the 1940s,
cryptography was a critical
part of World War II.
The Allies devoted significant
resources to breaking the German codes,
with a core of that effort taking
place at Bletchley Park in England.
Alan Turing was a leader in
this code breaking effort and
made many important contributions
to computer science.
In fact, he's so
important that the highest
honor in computer science is
called the Touring award.
So now that you know a little
bit about cryptographic history,
what will you be doing?
In this module, you're going to
learn about the Caesar Cipher.
You will implement it and then break it.
In the mini project at the end of this
course, you're going to learn about
the Vigenere Cipher and
will also implement it and break it.
Of course, all of these problems are going
to teach you several important skills
that can help you solve a wide
variety of other problems.